.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH SGLR 1 "3.10.2" "20/Aug/2001" "Meta-Environment Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
SGLR \- the Scannerless Generalized LR parser
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsglr\fR \-\fBp\fR file [\-\fB2?AbcdhlmnstvV\fR] [\-\fBf\fR[adeirp]] [\-\fBi\fR \fIfile\fR] [\-\fBo\fR \fIfile\fR] [\-\fBs\fR \fIsort\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBsglr\fR parser uses a specified \fIparse table\fR to parse an \fIinput file\fR.
After a successful parse, the resulting parse forest is written to an
\fIoutput file\fR.
.PP
A number of options can be supplied; these are as follows:
.Ip "-\fB2\fR" 4
Generate AsFix2 output format.  
.Ip "-\fBA\fR" 4
Ambiguities are treated as errors.
.Ip "-\fBb\fR, \-\fBt\fR" 4
Choose between binary (\fBb\fR) and plaintext (\fBt\fR) output formats.  Default
is binary output.
.Ip "-\fBc\fR" 4
Toggles cycle detection (on by default).
.Ip "-\fBd\fR" 4
Toggles debug mode.  In debug mode, a full trace for the entire parse
is maintained in the \fI.sglr-log\fR.  Be alert: such files tend to become
rather big.
.Ip "-\fBf\fR" 4
The parser applies a number of filters to ambiguous trees after the parsing
process has finished. Just supplying the \-\fBf\fR option toggles the application
of all filters. Specific filters can be toggled by using \-\fBf\fR with an
additional letter:
.Sp
.Vb 6
\& a : associativity        
\& d : direct eagerness    
\& e : eagerness          
\& i : injection count   
\& p : priority         
\& r : reject          
.Ve
.Vb 1
\& e.g., "sglr -fi" will toggle the injection count filter.
.Ve
These specific toggles are supposed to be used for debugging purposes only.
So, do not use these options to tweak your language implementations! It is
highly probable that there will be no backward compatibility for them in 
future versions.
.Ip "-\fBi\fR \fIfile\fR" 4
Read input from \fIfile\fR; by default, input is read from stdin.
.Ip "-\fB?\fR, \-\fBh\fR" 4
Prints concise usage information (reflecting current setup).
.Ip "-\fBl\fR" 4
Toggles statistics mode (off by default).  Produces some run-time
statistics in \fIsglr-stats.txt\fR, including time and \- on platforms
on which these can be obtained \- memory usage data.
.Ip "-\fBm\fR" 4
Generate AsFix2ME output format.  This is the default format.
.Ip "-\fBn\fR" 4
Toggles the contruction of the parse tree (on by default).  
.Ip "-\fBo\fR \fIfile\fR" 4
Write output to \fIfile\fR; by default, output is written to stdout.
Note that strange things are bound to happen when writing binary
output to a tty.
.Ip "-\fBs\fR \fIsort\fR" 4
Only parse trees that have \fIsort\fR at their root are accepted.
.Ip "-\fBv\fR" 4
Toggles verbose operation.
.Ip "-\fBV\fR" 4
Displays the program's version number.
.SH "USAGE"
To parse, the \fBsglr\fR parser requires a parse table.  Instantiated with
that parse table, it has become a parser for the language defined by
the grammar corresponding to the specified parse table.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.Vb 11
\&    $ sglr -h
\&    Usage:
\&      sglr    -p file [-2?AbcdhlmntvV] [-f[adeirp]] [-i file] [-o file] \e
\&              [-s sort]
\&    [. . .]
\&    $ sglr -vp Test.tbl -i MyCode.cod -o Output.File -l
\&    sglr: logging to sglr-stats.txt
\&    sglr: opening parse table Test.tbl
\&    sglr: parsing file MyCode.cod (1 tokens)
\&    sglr: writing parse result to Output.File
\&    sglr: Test.tbl parsed MyCode.cod as sort S, exactly 0 ambiguities
.Ve
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Returns an error on unsuccesful parses.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIsdf2table\fR manpage
.SH "REFERENCES"
GraphViz: <http://www.research.att.com/sw/tools/graphviz/>

.SH "NOTES"
In a different context altogether, \fBsglr\fR runs as a \f(CWToolBus\fR client.
.SH "MAINTAINER"
Mark van den Brand <Mark.van.den.Brand@cwi.nl>

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "SGLR 1"
.IX Name "SGLR - the Scannerless Generalized LR parser"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "-\fB2\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBA\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBb\fR, \-\fBt\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBc\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBd\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBf\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBi\fR \fIfile\fR"

.IX Item "-\fB?\fR, \-\fBh\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBl\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBm\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBn\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBo\fR \fIfile\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBs\fR \fIsort\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBv\fR"

.IX Item "-\fBV\fR"

.IX Header "USAGE"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "REFERENCES"

.IX Header "NOTES"

.IX Header "MAINTAINER"

